in the summer of 2012 SpaceX were
looking to expand their rocket launching
business outside Florida
at the time the company had only flown
their Falcon 9 rocket a handful of times
but with a rapidly increasing launch
schedule an additional launch site was
required to meet their needs
they started looking at a small village
in Texas called Boca Chica where they
could start building their own private
Spaceport
Boca Chica is a tiny community in
Cameron County made up of just 35 houses
for years it has been the dream spot for
retirees and vacationers with waterfront
properties far away from civilization
the village is located on such a quiet
and untouched piece of land that water
must be trucked into the community once
a month basic errands like grocery
shopping require a 40-minute commute
into the nearest city of Brownsville
this raises the question why would
SpaceX choose such a poor and desolate
part of the country to start building
their future Spaceport
despite the lack of basic infrastructure
or a skilled Workforce the quiet town of
Boca Chica actually had a lot to offer
SpaceX
along with the abundance of cheap land
and nearby access to the Sea Boca Chica
also had a low population density making
it the perfect location to launch and
land Rockets
the state of Texas was also offering a
15 million dollar incentive for them to
build their Spaceport in Texas
so SpaceX chose Boca Chica as their
future Spaceport and broke ground in
2014.
although the Falcon 9's launch schedule
was at an all-time high several years
went by without any construction at the
site
by this point many assumed that SpaceX
had changed their mind about building
their new Spaceport in Boca Chica but
life in the little town of Boca Chica
was about to change forever
in December 2018 a local resident shared
an image of a new structure at the
SpaceX site these images quickly spread
around the space community and many
suggested that the structure could in
fact be the beginnings of spacex's new
starship rocket at the time this seemed
like a crazy Theory and most people
assumed that this was simply a new water
tower being built for the site
but after rounds of speculation SpaceX
revealed that this structure really was
the beginnings of a rocket called
starhopper designed as an early test bed
for Starship
as the months went on spacex's presence
in the community grew and soon they were
ready to test starhopper with local
residents documenting every move
starhopper took to the sky in a
spectacular show coming back down to
land under its own propulsion
while this test was a major achievement
for SpaceX it didn't come without its
disturbances
during the test residents had to remain
outside their homes to avoid getting
injured by shattering windows as the
weeks went on it was clear that SpaceX
couldn't increase the scale of their
tests without putting the residents in
danger
so SpaceX began the process of buying
out the entire town and sent letters to
Residents offering to buy their homes at
three times the market value
although many residents accepted the
offer many understandably declined and
refused to give up their dream life to a
company that could easily offer so much
more
with an average property value of around
eighty thousand dollars SpaceX would
have spent at least 8.5 million dollars
to buy out every house but for the
residents who were being pressured to
move even a triple value offer wouldn't
be enough to find a similar home in a
different location
while SpaceX doesn't have the right to
kick residents out of their homes the
county does and while the county wants
to avoid evicting people from their
homes they have an opportunity to create
a thriving industry and provide
high-paying jobs to one of the most
economically depressed regions of the
country
this is where imminent domain comes in
Texas law states that private property
may only be taken by a government or
private entity that is authorized to do
so meaning that Cameron County could
give SpaceX the right to seize the
properties however these legal
requirements also state that seizing any
property must only occur for a purpose
that benefits the general public while
Texas does not allow eminent domain for
the benefit of private landowners there
is an alternative which would involve
SpaceX giving the land over to the
government this would not be ideal for
SpaceX since they would risk losing
control over their first privately owned
Spaceport SpaceX decided to extend their
deadline and increase offers for some of
the remaining residents
some residents were able to get their
homes reevaluated since SpaceX hadn't
taken into account the loss of business
for residents that were using their
homes as an Airbnb
as of March seven houses remain unsold
to SpaceX and the negotiations could
continue to go on for much longer
SpaceX will likely do everything they
can do to purchase the remaining
properties and claim the village to
themselves
SpaceX recently hired hundreds of new
workers to create a constant 24-hour
production line
although the residents of Boca Chica
were essentially forced to give up their
dream life it will hopefully be an
important sacrifice for the exciting
future that SpaceX are trying to create
for everyone thank you very much for
watching and I'll see you in the next
video
thank you